content/page/lab2.md, before:

+++
title= "Lab 2"
description= "Improving your solution CI/CD"
draft = false
weight = -105
+++
### Objectives

The objective of this lab is to build a solid base we can use to modernise your application. This lab includes:

- Updating our CloudFormation template to include additional Availability Zones and add Private Subnets to host our private resources.
- Using S3 as a versioned repository for our CloudFormation templates.
- Using CodePipeline to deploy our updated CloudFormation template into our VPC.

#### Reference Architecture

[![/img/arch/arch2.png](/img/arch/arch2.png)](/img/arch/arch2-big.png)

#### Lab Guide

1) Login to your AWS Console.

2) Ensure you have selected the region you were using in the previous lab.

#### Updating the CloudFormation Template

3) Open the CloudFormation template you downloaded in the previous lab in your favourite text editor. If you do not have a text editor, Visual Studio Code is a good programmers editor. It can be downloaded from: https://code.visualstudio.com/ for both Windows, Mac and Linux.

If you don't have the template, it can be copied from 'Assets' on the Lab 1 page.

4) Add a second public subnet in between 'PublicSubnetA' and 'PublicRouteTable'

```
  PublicSubnetB:
    Type: AWS::EC2::Subnet
    Properties:
      AvailabilityZone: !Select 
        - 1
        - Fn::GetAZs: !Ref 'AWS::Region'
      VpcId: !Ref VPC
      CidrBlock: 10.11.16.0/20
      MapPublicIpOnLaunch: true 
      Tags:
        - Key: 'Name'
          Value: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '::PublicSubnetB'] ]
```

5) Associate the public route table to the new public subnet between 'PublicSubnetARouteTableAssociation' and 'PublicSecurityGroup'

```
  PublicSubnetBRouteTableAssociation:
    Type: AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation
    Properties:
      RouteTableId: !Ref PublicRouteTable
      SubnetId: !Ref PublicSubnetB
```

6) Add our private Subnets, Route tables and Security Groups between 'PublicSecurityGroup' and 'ServerRole'

```
#Private Subnet
  PrivateSubnetA:
    Type: AWS::EC2::Subnet
    Properties:
      AvailabilityZone: !Select 
        - 0
        - Fn::GetAZs: !Ref 'AWS::Region'
      VpcId: !Ref VPC
      CidrBlock: 10.11.32.0/20
      MapPublicIpOnLaunch: false 
      Tags:
        - Key: 'Name'
          Value: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '::PrivateSubnetA'] ]

  PrivateSubnetB:
    Type: AWS::EC2::Subnet
    Properties:
      AvailabilityZone: !Select 
        - 1
        - Fn::GetAZs: !Ref 'AWS::Region'
      VpcId: !Ref VPC
      CidrBlock: 10.11.48.0/20
      MapPublicIpOnLaunch: false 
      Tags:
        - Key: 'Name'
          Value: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '::PrivateSubnetB'] ]

  PrivateRouteTable:
    Type: AWS::EC2::RouteTable
    Properties:
      VpcId: !Ref VPC
      Tags:
        - Key: 'Name'
          Value: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '::PrivateRouteTable'] ]

  PrivateSubnetARouteTableAssociation:
    Type: AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation
    Properties:
      RouteTableId: !Ref PrivateRouteTable
      SubnetId: !Ref PrivateSubnetA

  PrivateSubnetBRouteTableAssociation:
    Type: AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation
    Properties:
      RouteTableId: !Ref PrivateRouteTable
      SubnetId: !Ref PrivateSubnetB

  PrivateSecurityGroup:
    Type: AWS::EC2::SecurityGroup
    Properties:
      VpcId: !Ref VPC
      GroupDescription: Enable database access
      SecurityGroupIngress:
      - IpProtocol: tcp
        FromPort: '3306'
        ToPort: '3306'
        SourceSecurityGroupId: !Ref PublicSecurityGroup
      Tags:
        - Key: 'Name'
          Value: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '::PrivateSecurityGroup'] ]
```

7) Save your changes.

You can use https://text-compare.com/ (or diff!) to compare your previous version of the template (infra-lab1.yml) with the updated version of the CloudFormation template. Alternatively, you can also download the completed template under 'Assets' at the bottom of this page.

#### Deploy the CloudFormation changes using CodePipeline

In order to deploy the CloudFormation changes for our TSAGallery we will be using CodePipeline, however as we are embracing infrastructure as code, we will setup the CodePipeline using CloudFormation. This will be our BootStrap stack which we can then use to automate the remainder of our environment.

#### Create the BootStrap CloudFormation template

8) Create a new blank document in your favourite text editor. Add each of the following sections to the end of the document.

__Note:__ Indentation is important in CloudFormation and the code snippets must be copied exactly as they appear, including leading spaces.

9) Add the CloudFormation version line.

```
AWSTemplateFormatVersion: 2010-09-09
```

10) Add the parameters that will control the creation of the resources:

- 'KeyName' and 'SSHLocation' will be used as a parameter for the main template we edited above.
- 'ChildStackName' is the name of the stack used to initialise your account. This will be 'TSAGallery' unless you changed it in Lab 1.
- 'DataBucketName' is the location we will be storing the resources for the main stack including the CloudFormation template.


```bash
Parameters:
  KeyName:
    Description: Name of an existing EC2 KeyPair to enable SSH access to the instance
    Type: AWS::EC2::KeyPair::KeyName
    ConstraintDescription: can contain only ASCII characters.

  SSHLocation:
    Description: 'The IP address range that can be used to SSH to the EC2 instances'
    Type: String
    MinLength: '9'
    MaxLength: '18'
    AllowedPattern: '(\d{1,3})\.(\d{1,3})\.(\d{1,3})\.(\d{1,3})/(\d{1,2})'
    ConstraintDescription: must be a valid IP CIDR range of the form x.x.x.x/x.
    Default: 0.0.0.0/0

  ChildStackName:
    Description: The name for the CloudFormation stack that will be created and updated by this CodePipeline
    Type: String
    MinLength: '5'
    MaxLength: '18'
    Default: TSAGallery
  
  DataBucketName:
    Description: The name for the S3 Bucket the will store the data
    Type: String
    MinLength: '3'
    MaxLength: '63'
    AllowedPattern: '(?=^.{3,63}$)(?!^(\d+\.)+\d+$)(^(([a-z0-9]|[a-z0-9][a-z0-9\-]*[a-z0-9])\.)*([a-z0-9]|[a-z0-9][a-z0-9\-]*[a-z0-9])$)'
    Default: tsagallery.companyname.com
```

11) Add the first resource, a new IAM role that will be used by CloudFormation and CodePipeline to manage your main stack.

```
Resources:
  PipelineRole:
    Type: AWS::IAM::Role
    Properties:
      AssumeRolePolicyDocument:
        Version: 2012-10-17
        Statement:
          - Effect: Allow
            Principal:
              Service:
                - codepipeline.amazonaws.com
                - cloudformation.amazonaws.com
                - codebuild.amazonaws.com
            Action: sts:AssumeRole
      Policies:
        - PolicyName: CloudPipelinePolicy
          PolicyDocument:
            Version: 2012-10-17
            Statement:
              - Effect: Allow
                Action: "*"
                Resource: "*"
```

12) Add the two S3 buckets we will need. The first is our data bucket. This will store all the assets for the system. The second is used by CodePipeline to store artifacts during the pipeline execution.

```
  StackData: 
    Type: AWS::S3::Bucket
    Properties:
      BucketName: !Ref DataBucketName
      VersioningConfiguration:
        Status: Enabled

  PipelineArtifacts:
    Type: AWS::S3::Bucket
```

13) Add the CodePipeline body.

```
  Pipeline:
    Type: AWS::CodePipeline::Pipeline
    Properties:
      Name: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '-Pipeline'] ]
      ArtifactStore:
        Type: S3
        Location: !Ref PipelineArtifacts
      RoleArn: !GetAtt [PipelineRole, Arn]
      Stages:
```

14) Add a stage to pull the updates from the metadata bucket as the source.

```
        -
          Name: Source
          Actions:
            -
              Name: SourceAction
              RunOrder: 1
              ActionTypeId:
                Category: Source
                Owner: AWS
                Version: 1
                Provider: S3
              Configuration:
                S3Bucket: !Ref DataBucketName
                PollForSourceChanges: true
                S3ObjectKey: cloudformation/infra.yml.zip
              OutputArtifacts:
                - Name: SourceArtifact
```

15) Add a stage to deploy the 'SourceArtifact' using CloudFormation. A 'SourceArtifact' is the name given to the source template inside CodePipeline.

```
        -
          Name: Deploy
          Actions:
            -
              Name: DeployAction
              RunOrder: 2
              InputArtifacts:
                - Name: SourceArtifact
              ActionTypeId:
                Category: Deploy
                Owner: AWS
                Version: 1
                Provider: CloudFormation
              Configuration:
                ActionMode: CREATE_UPDATE
                RoleArn: !GetAtt [PipelineRole, Arn]
                Capabilities: CAPABILITY_IAM,CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM
                StackName: !Ref ChildStackName
                TemplatePath: SourceArtifact::infra.yml
                ParameterOverrides: 
                  !Sub 
                  - |
                    {
                      "KeyName": "${KeyName}",
                      "SSHLocation": "${SSHLocation}"
                    }
                  - 
                    KeyName: !Ref KeyName
                    SSHLocation: !Ref SSHLocation
```

16) Lastly, we need to add an output. This will allow us to refer to the data bucket in our other CloudFormation Templates.

```
Outputs:
  StackDataBucket:
    Description: The name of the bucket used to store all the stack assets
    Value: !Ref DataBucketName
    Export:
      Name: !Sub "TSAGallery-DataBucket"
```

__Note:__ Why do we export the bucket name, but use parameters for the KeyName and SSHLocation?

We want to be able to use the same CloudFormation templates for both production and non-production stacks so we ensure the infrastructure is consistent. As the data location would be shared, we can just export the value and import as needed. Non-production stacks should have a separate key as developers may use their own keys, and the SSH location could be a more relaxed range of IPs.

17) Save the file as 'bootstrap.yml'. The full file can be found under 'Assets' at the bottom of this page.

18) Back in the AWS Console, select the CloudFormation service.

19) You will need the Key name and SSHLocation for your TSAGallery stack. To find these values;

- Open the AWS Console in a new window.
- Select the CloudFormation service.
- Select the TSAGallery stack and click the 'Parameters' tab.
- The two values needed are listed and should be copied into a temporary file.

20) Click 'Create stack'.

21) Select 'Upload a template file' and 'Choose file'. Select the bootstrap.yml file you saved earlier. Then click 'Next'.

22) Enter 'TSABootstrap' as the Stack name.

23) Leave the 'ChildStackName' as 'TSAGallery' unless you changed the main stack name in Lab 1.

24) Select the 'KeyName' that matches the Key name you created earlier.

25) Enter a 'DataBucketName' bucket name such as 'tsagallery.companyname.com'. Bucket names must be globally unique. One way of ensuring global uniqueness, is to use a DNS name such as tsa-infrastructure.companyname.com. Make a note of this name as you will need it later.

26) Leave the 'SSHLocation' as '0.0.0.0/0' unless it was changed in an earlier step.

27) Click 'Next'.

28) On the Configure stack options page, scroll to the bottom and click 'Next'.

29) On the Review TSA-Bootstrap page, scroll to the bottom. Click the 'I acknowledge that AWS CloudFormation might create IAM resources' option and click 'Create stack'.

#### Deploy the new infra.yml

30) Using your local computer, create a zip file containing the updated infra.yml and call it 'infra.yml.zip' (you may need to rename this from infra-lab2.yml).

31) Select the S3 service.

32) Select the bucket with the name from the 'DataBucketName' earlier.

33) Click Create Folder. Enter the folder name 'cloudformation' and click 'Save'.

__Note__: The folder name must be all lowercase

34) Click on the new 'cloudformation' folder to open it.

35) Click Upload and drop the 'infra.yml.zip' file onto the upload screen. Click 'Upload'.

36) Select the CodePipeline service and select the 'TSABootstrap-Pipeline' to confirm it has run. It may take a few minutes to start and run. Both Source and Deploy should now show as 'Succeeded'.

#### Confirm the changes

37) Select the CloudFormation service, select the TSAGallery stack and click the Resources tab.

You should now be able to see PublicSubnetB, PrivateSubnetA and PrivateSubnetB, along with the supporting route tables and security groups.

### Wrap-up

In this lab you used CloudFormation to setup a VPC structure or landing zone you will use for the remainder of the labs, you also used CodePipeline to automate the deployment of these changes. We will continue to use this Pipeline as we add more services and resources to your account.

### Talking points

- We have setup public and private subnets. We can also setup three layers of subnets to better secure our public endpoints, what are the advantages of this?
- Two availability zones provides high availability, how can we use more availability zones to provide fault tolerance?

### Clean-up

To remove the resources you have created thus far:

1) Select the S3 service. You will need to empty the DataBucketName bucket, along with the pipeline artifacts bucket. This will be named something like tsabootstrap-pipelineartifacts-?????. You can empty the bucket using the 'Empty' button after selecting the bucket in S3.

2) Select the CloudFormation service.

3) Select the TSAGallery stack by clicking the selection circle. The row will highlight blue.

4) Using the Actions menu, select 'Delete stack'.

5) When prompted, click 'Delete'.

This will delete all the resources that were created using the main CloudFormation template.

6) Use the same Delete stack method used on the TSAGallery stack to delete the TSABootstrap stack.

#### Assets

**[infra-lab2.yml](/assets/cloudformation/infra-lab2.yml)**

**[bootstrap.yml](/assets/cloudformation/bootstrap.yml)**

Commit message:

add lab clean up message closes #46

content/page/lab2.md, after:

+++
title= "Lab 2"
description= "Improving your solution CI/CD"
draft = false
weight = -105
+++
### Objectives

The objective of this lab is to build a solid base we can use to modernise your application. This lab includes:

- Updating our CloudFormation template to include additional Availability Zones and add Private Subnets to host our private resources.
- Using S3 as a versioned repository for our CloudFormation templates.
- Using CodePipeline to deploy our updated CloudFormation template into our VPC.

#### Reference Architecture

[![/img/arch/arch2.png](/img/arch/arch2.png)](/img/arch/arch2-big.png)

#### Lab Guide

1) Login to your AWS Console.

2) Ensure you have selected the region you were using in the previous lab.

#### Updating the CloudFormation Template

3) Open the CloudFormation template you downloaded in the previous lab in your favourite text editor. If you do not have a text editor, Visual Studio Code is a good programmers editor. It can be downloaded from: https://code.visualstudio.com/ for both Windows, Mac and Linux.

If you don't have the template, it can be copied from 'Assets' on the Lab 1 page.

4) Add a second public subnet in between 'PublicSubnetA' and 'PublicRouteTable'

```
  PublicSubnetB:
    Type: AWS::EC2::Subnet
    Properties:
      AvailabilityZone: !Select 
        - 1
        - Fn::GetAZs: !Ref 'AWS::Region'
      VpcId: !Ref VPC
      CidrBlock: 10.11.16.0/20
      MapPublicIpOnLaunch: true 
      Tags:
        - Key: 'Name'
          Value: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '::PublicSubnetB'] ]
```

5) Associate the public route table to the new public subnet between 'PublicSubnetARouteTableAssociation' and 'PublicSecurityGroup'

```
  PublicSubnetBRouteTableAssociation:
    Type: AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation
    Properties:
      RouteTableId: !Ref PublicRouteTable
      SubnetId: !Ref PublicSubnetB
```

6) Add our private Subnets, Route tables and Security Groups between 'PublicSecurityGroup' and 'ServerRole'

```
#Private Subnet
  PrivateSubnetA:
    Type: AWS::EC2::Subnet
    Properties:
      AvailabilityZone: !Select 
        - 0
        - Fn::GetAZs: !Ref 'AWS::Region'
      VpcId: !Ref VPC
      CidrBlock: 10.11.32.0/20
      MapPublicIpOnLaunch: false 
      Tags:
        - Key: 'Name'
          Value: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '::PrivateSubnetA'] ]

  PrivateSubnetB:
    Type: AWS::EC2::Subnet
    Properties:
      AvailabilityZone: !Select 
        - 1
        - Fn::GetAZs: !Ref 'AWS::Region'
      VpcId: !Ref VPC
      CidrBlock: 10.11.48.0/20
      MapPublicIpOnLaunch: false 
      Tags:
        - Key: 'Name'
          Value: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '::PrivateSubnetB'] ]

  PrivateRouteTable:
    Type: AWS::EC2::RouteTable
    Properties:
      VpcId: !Ref VPC
      Tags:
        - Key: 'Name'
          Value: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '::PrivateRouteTable'] ]

  PrivateSubnetARouteTableAssociation:
    Type: AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation
    Properties:
      RouteTableId: !Ref PrivateRouteTable
      SubnetId: !Ref PrivateSubnetA

  PrivateSubnetBRouteTableAssociation:
    Type: AWS::EC2::SubnetRouteTableAssociation
    Properties:
      RouteTableId: !Ref PrivateRouteTable
      SubnetId: !Ref PrivateSubnetB

  PrivateSecurityGroup:
    Type: AWS::EC2::SecurityGroup
    Properties:
      VpcId: !Ref VPC
      GroupDescription: Enable database access
      SecurityGroupIngress:
      - IpProtocol: tcp
        FromPort: '3306'
        ToPort: '3306'
        SourceSecurityGroupId: !Ref PublicSecurityGroup
      Tags:
        - Key: 'Name'
          Value: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '::PrivateSecurityGroup'] ]
```

7) Save your changes.

You can use https://text-compare.com/ (or diff!) to compare your previous version of the template (infra-lab1.yml) with the updated version of the CloudFormation template. Alternatively, you can also download the completed template under 'Assets' at the bottom of this page.

#### Deploy the CloudFormation changes using CodePipeline

In order to deploy the CloudFormation changes for our TSAGallery we will be using CodePipeline, however as we are embracing infrastructure as code, we will setup the CodePipeline using CloudFormation. This will be our BootStrap stack which we can then use to automate the remainder of our environment.

#### Create the BootStrap CloudFormation template

8) Create a new blank document in your favourite text editor. Add each of the following sections to the end of the document.

__Note:__ Indentation is important in CloudFormation and the code snippets must be copied exactly as they appear, including leading spaces.

9) Add the CloudFormation version line.

```
AWSTemplateFormatVersion: 2010-09-09
```

10) Add the parameters that will control the creation of the resources:

- 'KeyName' and 'SSHLocation' will be used as a parameter for the main template we edited above.
- 'ChildStackName' is the name of the stack used to initialise your account. This will be 'TSAGallery' unless you changed it in Lab 1.
- 'DataBucketName' is the location we will be storing the resources for the main stack including the CloudFormation template.


```bash
Parameters:
  KeyName:
    Description: Name of an existing EC2 KeyPair to enable SSH access to the instance
    Type: AWS::EC2::KeyPair::KeyName
    ConstraintDescription: can contain only ASCII characters.

  SSHLocation:
    Description: 'The IP address range that can be used to SSH to the EC2 instances'
    Type: String
    MinLength: '9'
    MaxLength: '18'
    AllowedPattern: '(\d{1,3})\.(\d{1,3})\.(\d{1,3})\.(\d{1,3})/(\d{1,2})'
    ConstraintDescription: must be a valid IP CIDR range of the form x.x.x.x/x.
    Default: 0.0.0.0/0

  ChildStackName:
    Description: The name for the CloudFormation stack that will be created and updated by this CodePipeline
    Type: String
    MinLength: '5'
    MaxLength: '18'
    Default: TSAGallery
  
  DataBucketName:
    Description: The name for the S3 Bucket the will store the data
    Type: String
    MinLength: '3'
    MaxLength: '63'
    AllowedPattern: '(?=^.{3,63}$)(?!^(\d+\.)+\d+$)(^(([a-z0-9]|[a-z0-9][a-z0-9\-]*[a-z0-9])\.)*([a-z0-9]|[a-z0-9][a-z0-9\-]*[a-z0-9])$)'
    Default: tsagallery.companyname.com
```

11) Add the first resource, a new IAM role that will be used by CloudFormation and CodePipeline to manage your main stack.

```
Resources:
  PipelineRole:
    Type: AWS::IAM::Role
    Properties:
      AssumeRolePolicyDocument:
        Version: 2012-10-17
        Statement:
          - Effect: Allow
            Principal:
              Service:
                - codepipeline.amazonaws.com
                - cloudformation.amazonaws.com
                - codebuild.amazonaws.com
            Action: sts:AssumeRole
      Policies:
        - PolicyName: CloudPipelinePolicy
          PolicyDocument:
            Version: 2012-10-17
            Statement:
              - Effect: Allow
                Action: "*"
                Resource: "*"
```

12) Add the two S3 buckets we will need. The first is our data bucket. This will store all the assets for the system. The second is used by CodePipeline to store artifacts during the pipeline execution.

```
  StackData: 
    Type: AWS::S3::Bucket
    Properties:
      BucketName: !Ref DataBucketName
      VersioningConfiguration:
        Status: Enabled

  PipelineArtifacts:
    Type: AWS::S3::Bucket
```

13) Add the CodePipeline body.

```
  Pipeline:
    Type: AWS::CodePipeline::Pipeline
    Properties:
      Name: !Join ['', [!Ref 'AWS::StackName', '-Pipeline'] ]
      ArtifactStore:
        Type: S3
        Location: !Ref PipelineArtifacts
      RoleArn: !GetAtt [PipelineRole, Arn]
      Stages:
```

14) Add a stage to pull the updates from the metadata bucket as the source.

```
        -
          Name: Source
          Actions:
            -
              Name: SourceAction
              RunOrder: 1
              ActionTypeId:
                Category: Source
                Owner: AWS
                Version: 1
                Provider: S3
              Configuration:
                S3Bucket: !Ref DataBucketName
                PollForSourceChanges: true
                S3ObjectKey: cloudformation/infra.yml.zip
              OutputArtifacts:
                - Name: SourceArtifact
```

15) Add a stage to deploy the 'SourceArtifact' using CloudFormation. A 'SourceArtifact' is the name given to the source template inside CodePipeline.

```
        -
          Name: Deploy
          Actions:
            -
              Name: DeployAction
              RunOrder: 2
              InputArtifacts:
                - Name: SourceArtifact
              ActionTypeId:
                Category: Deploy
                Owner: AWS
                Version: 1
                Provider: CloudFormation
              Configuration:
                ActionMode: CREATE_UPDATE
                RoleArn: !GetAtt [PipelineRole, Arn]
                Capabilities: CAPABILITY_IAM,CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM
                StackName: !Ref ChildStackName
                TemplatePath: SourceArtifact::infra.yml
                ParameterOverrides: 
                  !Sub 
                  - |
                    {
                      "KeyName": "${KeyName}",
                      "SSHLocation": "${SSHLocation}"
                    }
                  - 
                    KeyName: !Ref KeyName
                    SSHLocation: !Ref SSHLocation
```

16) Lastly, we need to add an output. This will allow us to refer to the data bucket in our other CloudFormation Templates.

```
Outputs:
  StackDataBucket:
    Description: The name of the bucket used to store all the stack assets
    Value: !Ref DataBucketName
    Export:
      Name: !Sub "TSAGallery-DataBucket"
```

__Note:__ Why do we export the bucket name, but use parameters for the KeyName and SSHLocation?

We want to be able to use the same CloudFormation templates for both production and non-production stacks so we ensure the infrastructure is consistent. As the data location would be shared, we can just export the value and import as needed. Non-production stacks should have a separate key as developers may use their own keys, and the SSH location could be a more relaxed range of IPs.

17) Save the file as 'bootstrap.yml'. The full file can be found under 'Assets' at the bottom of this page.

18) Back in the AWS Console, select the CloudFormation service.

19) You will need the Key name and SSHLocation for your TSAGallery stack. To find these values;

- Open the AWS Console in a new window.
- Select the CloudFormation service.
- Select the TSAGallery stack and click the 'Parameters' tab.
- The two values needed are listed and should be copied into a temporary file.

20) Click 'Create stack'.

21) Select 'Upload a template file' and 'Choose file'. Select the bootstrap.yml file you saved earlier. Then click 'Next'.

22) Enter 'TSABootstrap' as the Stack name.

23) Leave the 'ChildStackName' as 'TSAGallery' unless you changed the main stack name in Lab 1.

24) Select the 'KeyName' that matches the Key name you created earlier.

25) Enter a 'DataBucketName' bucket name such as 'tsagallery.companyname.com'. Bucket names must be globally unique. One way of ensuring global uniqueness, is to use a DNS name such as tsa-infrastructure.companyname.com. Make a note of this name as you will need it later.

26) Leave the 'SSHLocation' as '0.0.0.0/0' unless it was changed in an earlier step.

27) Click 'Next'.

28) On the Configure stack options page, scroll to the bottom and click 'Next'.

29) On the Review TSA-Bootstrap page, scroll to the bottom. Click the 'I acknowledge that AWS CloudFormation might create IAM resources' option and click 'Create stack'.

#### Deploy the new infra.yml

30) Using your local computer, create a zip file containing the updated infra.yml and call it 'infra.yml.zip' (you may need to rename this from infra-lab2.yml).

31) Select the S3 service.

32) Select the bucket with the name from the 'DataBucketName' earlier.

33) Click Create Folder. Enter the folder name 'cloudformation' and click 'Save'.

__Note__: The folder name must be all lowercase

34) Click on the new 'cloudformation' folder to open it.

35) Click Upload and drop the 'infra.yml.zip' file onto the upload screen. Click 'Upload'.

36) Select the CodePipeline service and select the 'TSABootstrap-Pipeline' to confirm it has run. It may take a few minutes to start and run. Both Source and Deploy should now show as 'Succeeded'.

#### Confirm the changes

37) Select the CloudFormation service, select the TSAGallery stack and click the Resources tab.

You should now be able to see PublicSubnetB, PrivateSubnetA and PrivateSubnetB, along with the supporting route tables and security groups.

### Wrap-up

In this lab you used CloudFormation to setup a VPC structure or landing zone you will use for the remainder of the labs, you also used CodePipeline to automate the deployment of these changes. We will continue to use this Pipeline as we add more services and resources to your account.

### Talking points

- We have setup public and private subnets. We can also setup three layers of subnets to better secure our public endpoints, what are the advantages of this?
- Two availability zones provides high availability, how can we use more availability zones to provide fault tolerance?

### Clean-up

You only need to clean up if you are **not** continuing the labs. If you are you **don't** need to do these steps, however to remove the resources you have created thus far:

1) Select the S3 service. You will need to empty the DataBucketName bucket, along with the pipeline artifacts bucket. This will be named something like tsabootstrap-pipelineartifacts-?????. You can empty the bucket using the 'Empty' button after selecting the bucket in S3.

2) Select the CloudFormation service.

3) Select the TSAGallery stack by clicking the selection circle. The row will highlight blue.

4) Using the Actions menu, select 'Delete stack'.

5) When prompted, click 'Delete'.

This will delete all the resources that were created using the main CloudFormation template.

6) Use the same Delete stack method used on the TSAGallery stack to delete the TSABootstrap stack.

#### Assets

**[infra-lab2.yml](/assets/cloudformation/infra-lab2.yml)**

**[bootstrap.yml](/assets/cloudformation/bootstrap.yml)**
